---
title: "Golang vs Python for backend"
date: 2022-15-03 10:18:00
description: The ultimate fight between the two: Python or Goland for backend
---

Both Python and Golang are popular programming languages and widely used in full-stack development, mostly on backend-development. Both of these languages have their places and use cases and in this post, I will cover some of them to help you choose the best option.

### What is even Backend-development?

So, backend-development is something that is not frontend. That means the backend is what you cannot see. It is something that runs in the background and does a different kinds of things. For example, the backend contains servers and so on. It communicates with databases.

### Python for backend

Python is one of the most popular programming languages. It is used by beginners as well as professional developers. Its syntax is like English and it has not plenty of special characters and that is why it is easy to write.

There are multiple good libraries and frameworks for backend development. For example, there are Django, Socket, and Flask.

Python is not the best choice of technology if your app needs to be fast and handle stuff fastly and effectively. Even it is not the fastest option there, I would suggest it for starting backend development.

### Golang

I would say that Golang is Python with the syntax of the C programming language. That means there are curly brackets and semicolons in the syntax of Golang.

Go is designed mainly for backend and server programming. That is why it has a big list of different libraries and frameworks for those development areas. Golang is used by many big tech companies like Google.

I think that Golang is the choice of language if your application needs power and speed. It is not maybe the easiest option but there are many good tutorials and documentation on development with it.

### Conclusion

Both of these languages are good choices for back-end development and creating servers. It depends on your needs that which one to choose as the language.

If I must choose one for my every project, it would be Golang because of the speed and big variation of libraries. Although, you have to choose the technology for your projects by yourself.
